#32 Self description generation via infrastructure discoverability features

Type: Hackathon
Title: Creating self-descriptions using the discoverability platform features.
Description: While some of the self-description attributes like legal person
  and company number only exist in small numbers and don't change very often,
  this is not the case for technical properties of on-demand infrastructure such as clouds and k8s
  clusters. Clouds tend to evolve more quickly, the k8s clusters even are
  created and scaled on-demand. Properly self-describing them requires
  that the creation of these self-descriptions is automated. Fortunately,
  both OpenStack and Kubernetes support discovering the most relevant
  attributes.
  This was worked on in a previous Hackathon, the result is on github[1].
  The tool creates JSON-LD that is in-line with the then discussed attributes
  and SD format. It only covers the OpenStack IaaS platform and while
  listing all services, it only retrieves details for some of them.
  During the Hackathon, we want to extend the coverage and most importantly
  start covering the Kubernetes clusters. We also need to be bring the
  attributes up-to-date with respect to the currently discussed vocabulary.
  The vocabulary likely will benefit from being extended; generating proposals
  to do just that is a wanted side-benefit of the hacking session.
  There will be remote participants from at least the SCS community
  contributing and supporting. https://conf.scs.koeln:8443/GX-Hackathon6
  [1] https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/gx-self-description-generator
Relation to goals: We do develop tools for creating Self-Descriptions
Responsible: Max Wolfs <wolfs@osb-alliance.com> (SCS Project @ OSB Alliance e.V.)
  Supported (remotely) by SCS community members and WG Srv Char members.
Goals & Outcomes: Participants understand the (draft) technical attributes to
  characterize infrastructure services (OpenStack and Kubernetes). They will
  have tooling to generate self-descriptions by querying the relevant APIs.
  This will serve as useful input / feed-back again to the service
  characteristics working group again.
Expected knowledge: Gaia-X Self-Descriptions, Python, OpenStack API, Kubernetes API
Requirements: Access to OpenStack clouds and/or k8s Clusters (cluster-API),
  talk to us (SCS) beforehand if you want to use our envinroments to work
  against.
Dev Environment: Computer/VM with python, openstackSDK, python kubernetes-client.

